In a moment you will see what I
and many others consider to be a hero.
She's tiny in stature but bold and courageous in her actions
on behalf of the Earth's record keepers, elephants.
She grew up with elephants in a hill tribe
in Thailand and grew to have an
extraordinary ability to understand them.
Some even call her the elephant whisperer.
Her mission is to save abused elephants
and her ultimate dream, to return all of Thailand's
elephants to the wild where they belong.
(gentle music)
Is it okay to call you Lek?
Yeah.
Okay Lek, tell us a little bit about
how you fell in love so deeply with
the elephants from such an early age.
When I young I spend time with elephant
and I never think the time that my family
allow me to stand next to elephant
I feel that elephant is not anymore, I feel they're like us.
I feel that is...
See I is all the time believe
elephant is the person like us.
Because is the way when I was young I get
a nap with the elephant when I was in the jungle.
I lie down, lean my head on the stomach
of elephant when she sleep in the afternoon is that's,
that's wonderful and I feel very safe.
I feel that are very beautiful and gentle.
And I have in my heart I can trust them.
Even, I know that the elephant they have
the feeling with the space and for people
who is dangerous for them or not dangerous.
Yes.
This is why I fall in love with elephant because
the first elephant who have show me,
even she a giant but she very gentle
and beautiful heart and that is the way
I first fall in love with elephant.
As time went on after you went to school
and so forth and you came to do this,
rescue them for a living, tell us about
the elephant, the condition of the elephants,
when they come to you, what they've been doing,
how they've been trained and what kind of shape
they're in by the time they come to you.
In the first of all when I have the elephant at home,
I believe all elephant to be happy like the one we have.
And then when I was 16 I have an opportunity
to follow the missionary to the logging area.
At that time, I never used to imagine work
with elephant at all but I dream that there's
someday I want to have elephant myself.
I went with the missionary because I want to be,
a chance English language with them but when I first
saw the elephant, they're working the logging.
I couldn't believe it myself but is,
what is my eyes see, elephant are suffering.
They are cut in the neck, know like the rope cut this.
They're forced to do the work, over and over
and then the rope cut deeper and deeper.
Many of them blind, still work lame, still forced to work
not easily, pull the log from the easy,
but pull from, pull the log from a steep hill.
They're pulling logs up a steep hill
so they use them for harvesting timber.
Yeah the big timber, some timber is
where it is very nearly to the elephant.
But some of them are lame and broken leg.
They force the elephant to work not easily,
force them but use a hand, hit them
or use the knife, stab them.
When I saw that you know, I'm shocked,
I couldn't believe my eyes and I just think that it's...
This thing is, I don't even believe that,
and then I came back from that trip,
that picture followed me like a shadow.
And that when it followed me and then
I saw many of them, wounded never, never treat.
So I came back, I start to work and I start to go
and bring the medicine to the jungle, back.
And every time I have enough money to buy medicine.
The more I go in the jungle, the more deeper and deeper,
I found more suffer animal, suffer elephant and that day,
I couldn't turn my back, couldn't turn my back to them.
And then I one day, I talked to my mother,
I said, "mom, I want to rescue the elephant."
Then my mom look at me
with a big question mark in the eyes.
Because for myself, I come from the hill tribe,
Baan Lao, Khmu the Khmu hill tribe.
Forget about education you know,
Khmu woman born to be a wife at home,
look after the kid and work at the farm.
Education, Khmu woman never have time to go and have that.
My mother she never have educate,
she pushed me to go and have education,
I'm a first generation at our family, at our village,
the first woman who come out for study.
So when I walk back and tell to my mother
I want to rescue elephant, my mother look at me,
she didn't say any word but she smile.
I know her smile mean, no way baby, but I said to her,
I said, "you might ask me how."
I said "do you, I don't know yet today
"but I think I can and I will," I never doubt my dream.
The more I go and more I fall in love with them.
I never doubt my dream, from a zero background,
I have so many friend around the world who come
to work with me volunteer, they fill my dream.
All the visitor who come every day now
to come give and put money for the project.
I put the money to the elephant and as...
You know, I start to work my own business,
before I was start the sanctuary,
I decide to go and do the business
and I have enough money to go and support project.
That's beautiful, that dream
that you have such commitment to.
For how many years now have you been doing this?
To do for the first temp works but
I did for the first, to go really carry
the medicine back 1985,
to do tempo experience,
Now this mean automatic temp works
but the first elephant I rescue 1982.
Also I have completely the I have like,
the car to go there with, before I used to walk,
and you know, go by bus, walk, motorcy'e,
and hire the porter to carry the medicine.
Later I start to go and buy the old jeep,
to go to the jungle.
Old jeep yes.
So now you have a car so it makes
it a lot easier (laugh).
I have ya I have a car
Yeah and then we can have more flexibility
to take the mobile clinic, another staff for mobile clinic.
First before I would go to rescue elephant
and when I see the elephant,
I have so many, see many elephant, torturing
that elephant but which one I will select?
Now we have people, how I go select the elephant?
What is the standard that we go and choose
which one to be rescue, and we take the most needed.
Like this one broke a leg, she's still forced to work.
This one both eyes blind is still forced to work.
She's the one I never turn my back.
Some elephant take me five months to go and try to rescue.
The owner play the greedy game,
the owner doesn't want sell this price,
the owner ya know confused, some elephant I use the money.
I use the police to go and help to talk, I use a headman,
It's a take a long-long time to
go and get one elephant back to the park.
That's interesting you, recently you've had
a situation where you had to let two or three of them
go back to the owners and can you talk about
what the owners do with the elephants,
what were the elephants doing before,
and what are they doing again cus I know this
made you all very sad, that they had
to go back after a few years with you.
Most elephant come from the trekking camp.
Trekking?
They come to us.
Trekking camp, they come to us because many condition.
most is they have a mental issue.
Many mother elephant kill the baby
the first minute they're born.
I think all around world no one know what going on.
and I used many of them to build case study.
In 2005 we have a very important case to happen,
one elephant can have seven mother,
success birth and they are
give birth in the same year.
Seven mothers gave birth in the same year?
Seven yes, same year.
Okay.
In one camp only which is very-very unusual
because in the number of 70 elephant
but seven mother have a baby after two year.
They give birth in 2005,
five mother kill the baby in the first minute the baby drop.
They killed the babies?
They kill the baby, you will see that mother elephant
they love the baby, they kill the baby, five mother
kill the baby but the two mother mean seven give birth,
five mother kill, success to kill the baby,
when the baby drop, one second the mother take the baby,
bang and kill, the two mother doesn't mean
mother doesn't want to kill, she try to kill but
the Mahout stab with the knife.
Rescue two baby, even they put the baby
in the trolley and run, the mother try to pull the chain,
grab the baby want to kill the baby.
This is--
That's not normal elephant behavior.
Yeah, as I work with elephant, as I do
the case study with the wild elephant,
I spent years and years with the wild elephant
in the jungle, I found out it's very unusual.
So I decide to go and ask the owner to allow me,
permission me to go and use to be a case study.
Every mother, seven of the mother pregnant.
Never normal reproduce, no natural, nature.
They force the mother, I show you a photo tomorrow.
They tie the mother on the tree
and force the...
the mother, tie the leg and the man have a knife,
to threaten the mother stab, stab for in her.
And then let the--
Why were they stabbing the mother?
To force the bull on to rape her.
Oh to, it's almost like a rape.
Breeding program call breeding program.
Some elephant will stay with us, some of them
pass to get program 40 time
and now when they stay in the park they become
mental issue, they walk like a zombie.
When they see the bull, you could see that
the bull next to them, they pee right away, they couldn't
stand that.
They're frightened.
They are they're frightened.
They're not allowed the bull to touch them at all.
We have to take some of them, never
never allow other bull to go and touch them again.
So they really, they forced reproduction
on the female and she became mentally unstable,
and then when the baby's born she wants nothing
to do with the baby, is that what you've got?
Yeah, I'll tell you, let her, why they want a baby?
They make the female elephant to have a baby,
because for the breeding program is a baby elephant
a lot of benefit to the camp.
When I have follow, I follow every case.
The life of the killed baby, that elephant no suffer
it know, so they stand up eye empty
they didn't know them self, they are the elephant.
Even the mother who have two baby elephant
never accept the baby again and in my opinion,
after I work, follow that case, I think that
all the elephant nature like, I think a life unavoidable.
If they see that the life of them not so safe,
I don't want that baby life then, they decide to kill them.
Yes, that's what I was wondering is if they
intuitively know it's not a safe world for that baby.
Yeah this is only my opinion, I can't just say about this.
No that's why I was thinking that
when you were talking, that they seem to have such a
a delicate sense of life.
Yeah.
When you ask me why I have leased the elephant.
When this elephant--
You're talking about a leasing program,
where you lease the elephants from...
The trekking camp (speaker mumbles).
Because why because they have been injured
or they're psychologically troubled, how do you
talk them into leasing the elephant?
When the mother, some mother pregnancy,
the Mahout know that, the owner of elephant,
they know that if they keep in the trekking camp
they will lose baby, so when they come and talk to me,
"can we leave the elephant with you?"
When they start to come, when the pregnancy,
three months before they give birth,
they leave with us, we don't pay anything.
We pay Mahout to come stay with us.
We have policy, the Mahout must be the owner only
to come and stay with us and when they stay with us,
we decide to go and use, let when the baby
give birth, the baby safe and then after that
Mahout can leave us at least one year.
We use that opportunity to train Mahout
and make them to understand how
to go and positive reinforcement.
But the culture is very--
Is positive reinforcement, yeah.
We then we start to use one year of our opportunity
to come stay with the baby elephant.
Make sure they trust human because that elephant
not belong to us, one day they will
walk out to work for the tourist industry.
They not fear for people and the people can trust.
Then the owner go train them hard way,
as the other elephant can do so
we use that time to educate the owner of elephant as well.
To go and make sure that they are there
and when they have to leave, stay away from us.
That baby elephant feel more pain from the training.
That's why we go and do now.
It's just painful to see them, have a very
freedom, life in the park and walk out
and go and become the slave working.
Very confuse for the elephant as well.
But we have no choice you know,
One choice send over the first time
and that elephant wants a life
and the mother kill the baby again
or we accept them and then I have use
this opportunity to educate them.
When this happened recently and the elephants
went back to the trekking company,
I was reading on your website that it was
emotionally very troubling for the elephant
one of the elephants. they knew what was going on.
Yeah you know that she didn't
want to leave and all this screaming,
it's so tragic and it bring a tear to us
after they take her to train,
she falling down, the leathers,
we not even put her in the leather yet.
She falling down after training
and they have to take her to the hospital.
We can now rescue her from the hospital
back to the park, unbelievable.
When she arrive all the hurt will come her.
All the what it would to her?
All the hurt will...
All the hurt comes to her, yes.
It will come her but she is totally change like that.
Is take time and is break my heart.
Is not all elephant that be like her,
to come back to stay with the herd again.
But to see totally different, she start to talk.
Talk to the other one to tell her experience.
What going on with her during the owner take her.
She refused to leave, that's why she collapsed.
And they bring her to the hospital.
And the owner is not able stabilize her
because she freedom, bring her to over there,
try to chain her try to go and make her do the trick,
she can't accept, when she come back,
today you know she listen to me
she listen to my, me as a woman who stay with her
and never beat her and never train her.
But Mahout that will train her in the village.
Now she refuse to listen to him.
When you say Mahout, what is Mahout?
The owner, the owner who take her to train.
She not listen to, when she stay with us,
she refuse him, she start to refuse him and
against him just swing the trunk everywhere.
But when she come to us so gentle, she like to
put the head, lean and just put the eye down,
just mommy help me and now any conversation
with the owner please let her us, back to us.
She not listen to him and you can see
tomorrow show, she was how different.
She now she not confident like the one
she left before we take her everything
when she come back she become mental.
Yes.
So sad.
What are some of the other, besides trekking,
do they have elephants that they train
for circuses and other things to?
Or is it mostly all the trekking and the logging industries?
I rescue from the circus, I rescue
from street begging, I rescue from the logging.
One at the circus when I first rescue her,
her name is Faa Sai, they chain her,
Shackle her on the small room, beaten her,
and one day she stopped eat.
She starve to death and in the owner know that
they were lost when I first found her
she have the tie the leg and she jump
all around like a kangaroo all around the room.
When the owner get the food she grab the food, smack it.
And her eye were going to blind,
I start to conversation with the owner
and I want to rescue and the owner first,
"oh this elephant only three and a half years old
"we still make money," but somehow they give up
I get the food for her she don't accept the food from me.
Her angry is over and like too much.
She couldn't see the human is her friend.
So when I take her to the park,
we release her off of the chain,
she couldn't use her leg, every time
when she walk fell over, other baby elephant
to take her to run, she kick her on because,
She wasn't used to walking.
She have freedom leg but she use her leg
like that kick her own leg all the time.
Some day she turn, she decide to like that
and screaming like I give up, I don't want anymore.
We take her a long time and all the herd
we let her free from the herd and the herd try healing her
touch her, comfort her it's beautiful to see
the way is the adopt mother treat her
and they take her to the mud bath.
When she went to the mud bath, other baby elephant
climb up to the mud bank, river bank.
She stand up and see, wow they use the leg.
Suddenly I saw that she put two leg together
and jump like she had the
Shackles.
Yeah
In her leg she got confident to use her leg like that.
She do it she use it three and half year.
She will use that to jump, traumatized.
I think it still in her mind.
Take a long time, today she start to happy.
Then when we rescue any baby elephant
who come from abuse to the park
and that baby screaming and talk,
she was the one who most understand.
She would try comfort and kiss them,
stay with that baby for weeks, and talking.
And talk low, soft to that baby elephant.
It's beautiful you know and the other baby elephant
is Paa Chan, never pass Paa Chan she come along
and touch and walk away she not really feel.
Mostly I found that the elephant who get passed abuse
will understand each other.
Yes, yes they understand,
like people who've been through abuse
understand other who have been abused.
There's something that goes around the internet,
a video that's been going around the internet,
showing an elephant painting with its trunk.
Everybody sees this and thinks, "oh they're so beautiful
"look how intelligent the elephant is."
But then we heard later that there maybe
some abuse going on in training the elephants to do this.
What's really going on with that program?
It's a lot of, a lot of thing is.
Normally I work for the elephant,
I see is what happen and the training
for the baby elephant, when they start to work
from the first time, the baby elephant
will go and first to grab the brush.
Grab what?
Grab the brush first.
The brush yes okay.
I was in that proceed before.
I have a company from America come along.
They're expert on elephant painting.
Because I work with elephant and I want to be with them,
I want to learn, I don't refuse for that,
I want to go and see what going on.
And then when they start to go and force them
many of them they don't force them,
when they get the brush elephant
use the brush broken put on the feet.
Oh they stomp on it.
Yeah stomp and break it and chewing,
throw away through the head.
This is the thing happen, some people
will go and train they give up, nature of elephant
no way they're gonna get that.
and later the force start
they will go and start to really
start and go and stab if that baby elephant not listen.
Some baby try to find that because
they pass from that person and that person
give up and new people start to come and train
but when they start to train, I think I better
show you a picture, I can't explain on this.
And also I recommend you to go see
how some place use the baby elephant to paint.
When you go and film it, don't stay in the audience side,
you have to stay other side, know when the trekking,
when the camp they show you, they always have elephants
stand and they stand here, the man who is the other side,
all on this side, the man who put the nail under here.
A nail?
Yeah under here, and all the time
that baby elephant will pee before they paint.
They pee?
They pee they can't control themself.
They know that right away I have to paint.
It's beautiful if you see the elephant painting,
it's amazing, but if you investigation behind,
you will know that it's what really behind it.
Yes they're being forced to do this.
Even me when if I see that, I don't blame the people
who buy elephant painting or the people who
go and do the business on elephant painting,
if they didn't know that but if the people
know for that they would never do that.
Because for myself I have many conversationalist friend,
who work around the world, when they see that painting,
in the documentary or in the website,
they writing me they said that's amazing,
how intelligent what the animal can do
because they don't show all, or even the people who
want to do that they sent only that picture,
elephant painting, the trunk on elephant
but who know behiind, before that.
And this can be I think the time for us to stop it.
Elephant painting not necessary.
That's why I wanted to ask you because there's
a lot of confusion because people are so enamored
with the intelligence of the elephant
and I had heard that there was a lot of cruelty
and thank you for clarifying that,
what is your after all these years of living
with the elephants and being with them,
how do you see them as a spirit?
First let me say this, one of the things I know you're
trying to do is stop the practice of crushing the spirit
of the animal and this is a 6,000 year old practice.
What happens when you break the spirit
of the elephant how do they do this, what do they do?
They take the baby separate from the mother.
When they take the mother, the baby away.
They make sure because the bond between
mother and baby is so strong other you
they're stronger than human can be.
The mother can die for the baby.
Also not just the mother, the nanny.
And aunties and the nanny.
And everyone, you can see from us
simple is not wild elephant, just see that the
elephant in the sanctuary who get abused
and have mental when they join together.
The way they show they're not freedom like a jungle,
you can see the bond in the wild.
Even more stronger than that,
so when they come into captivity
human also can take some part of the suppression.
But they can take some part of the elephant habitat.
But when the human want to break the bond
between mother and baby, they have to make sure that
the mother and baby, the baby forget the mother.
The way they train I also will show you in documentary.
The way they train they're beaten, abused
by these seven day in the training crush
until the baby totally insane.
Seven days in what?
Seven days in the training crush.
The crush is where they train them
and they beat them, cus I saw the word crush many times,
and I assumed that might be what it is.
That's a training pit or camp or something or room, chamber?
They have a station for that and this is the,
they prepare for the baby elephant.
But after the abuse, totally baby fear.
He is emotional and everything you know.
The baby they fear for human, they forget the mother.
I couldn't believe I saw that is when the mother
walk passed the baby, come and touch the baby,
That baby eye look at the mother, don't know mother at all.
After seven day, the baby look at the mother in front empty.
Cus they're so traumatized.
Yes, and that is so sad and 40%
of baby die in training crush.
That makes sense, absolutely broken spirit
broken heart, no reason to live.
The baby...
I have work with it,
I saw one baby that make me feel guilty.
I found that baby elephant because
in Thailand we have no law, to see the baby
elephant training, you can't complain to anyone.
I saw that baby train and then
I thought the next day the baby sleep.
I found out the baby die in the crush.
When I see the baby train, night before I will see the baby,
she use a trunk to pull my arm and I could look her eye
She just said please help me, I told her I said,
"baby I will take this picture to go and help you.
"I will go and help you I promise that.
"Please be patient, you freedom for the next couple day,
"be strong I will you use my picture to speak for you."
And the next I visit her she lie down and die.
She pull my arm, please help,
it's follow me I feel guilty on that,
I feel that why I don't help her.
Why don't pull her out, why I don't do,
such a man power to help her,
and I feel so angry about that
and I promised myself I will stand up on that
against about this abuse thing.
That's why I stand up speak everyday now.
No more elephants that crush no more elephant painting.
They should out, it's not necessary for human.
It's not necessary, it's a novelty item.
And in truth, if you had people that were kind
and loving to elephants like you are,
won't the elephants very happily be there
and if you need something, would they be willing
to help you if you needed help?
Or is it best, I'm just trying to look at it
in a different way, if they didn't abuse them,
is there a way they could get their cooperation
on certain things in life or, I know they've been used
for thousands of years for work, for pulling logs
and things like that, is there a way
that can be done humanely so they can still work?
Or should they just be left alone completely?
I think is what was happen is
first I talk about tourist industry.
Tourist industry, elephant industry is being
a lot of money for Thailand,
and then to go and change the idea of this
is like I walk against the wall because
they just say this is the way we make money,
you don't come and tell us what to do.
As well for logging, you know and
I try to go and educate different business
like the tourist industry, I try to do many way.
Like I stand up against cruelty.
Move back to be soft go back again to be their friend.
Elephant industry I work and now I try to work
with the government to work out and try to pull
the baby elephant out from the street.
Theres a lot of thing you can do
but seem very difficult cus money and benefit
they make from elephant is bigger than anything else.
Bigger than one voice like me ever can speak.
Where the government support that.
The what who supports it?
The government, the government support.
If you can see that now the Thai government
in the Thai TG like Thai highway.
If you come they show documentary
about elephant painting, promotion.
Tourist authority of Thailand are support
promotion about elephant painting.
Organization like me, when I started go and do that.
My words were written that's why I start
to have the education program,
I believe about education can change
the future of elephant.
We have a volunteer program, this volunteer come
like 20 a week, I have the hope from them.
They will go and help me to speak education,
more friend and family.
And the more we speak out, elephant we save.
I build everyday, I tell the volunteer,
you will be the friend for elephant for protection.
Everyday when I speak to people,
I believe that I build friend more and more and more.
And I'm the gatekeeper.
Yes absolutely.
This is I built now, to protect elephant.
This is, I shunned away before,
I used to stand up and fight,
I move back, change my way to go and fight.
Your strategy yes.
Let's talk a little bit about the elephants themselves,
and the magic that you see in the elephants
in observing them all these years
and their finest traits.
What you mean?
The very best you see the kind of the magical
aspect of being around elephants, the best--
(laugh)
I have story of how wonderful elephant.
The sorry tale never end but one thing
I see about elephant the love between each other.
Which is I couldn't find from any human being.
When elephant submit to love someone else,
they really love royally.
I have seen like Mae Perm and Jokia the blind elephant.
One all elephant on top the blind elephant
she become the eyes of the blind elephant.
They never apart even Jokia
walk in the field.
And some bug come to her Jokia call Mae Perm.
Sometime Mae Perm she got eyes
she can't see something when she get
just called a little bit, she run.
And taking care and talking, touch each other.
And comfort each other.
One time I found around Jokia have a bunker.
Like a big hole around Jokia,
I surprise why Jokia have dig so many hole around her,
She dug all these holes around her.
Yeah not just a little hole, Mae Perm that's who.
He helped to dug make to protect Jokia at night.
When they move her other place, they go and do again.
I wonder what going on, something wrong about it.
During the night they start to grab the grass
and weed put the cover on that
to make sure like that new home.
When I start to go and ask what going on.
I found out Jokia's Mahout fight with the other
Mahout and then other Mahout said--
Mahout is the elephant keeper,
Elephant keepers so Jokia
had fought some elephant keepers?
No her Mahout her keepers, fight with the other
elephant keepers and then during the,
I'm not here but other one said
"I will avenge you I will come
"and hurt you by stab you elephant."
She was protecting.
Mae Perm start to build the thing around Jokia.
To protect that is elephant come the Mahout
is really scared and after I find out, unbelievable.
The way they love each other is amazing.
And one thing I said, the human didn't, not the same
more polite, the more they stay together they're
they're more polite opposite from human.
They're polite I see that is, then first
they make the argument thing but lately
when they submit to be friend,
they polite and they love each other
they care to each other.
And they help with child rearing with each other?
All of the females come together,
the aunties and the nannies, they all help raise the baby?
Yeah, and even which I see the great buddy like
one elephant she's a old grandmother, she falling down
four calf, her friends screaming and when we run
to the shelter we saw the friend had pushed her
to lift and when other Mahout come to lift that elephant up,
Pushed him up yeah.
she lift as well and they walk together to the field
and all she shouldn't fell in the shelter,
they go and fell in--
Going to fall.
Yeah fall in the where is the weed and the soft grass.
And during the time when that elephant fell
because she old there she not dying--
This is a big deal, when they're old
and they fall down sometimes it's very, very difficult
for them to get back right, and the other elephants
will help them get up?
Yeah she don't move up, no she get up only in the shelter.
Because of the cement they walk together to the field,
and they fall down and the she stand up
and we try to pull her away because
we don't understand we said come out.
No, we have to bring food for her, even we put the food.
She go and grab the food and bring in front of her friend
and in the hot sun she grab the sand and throw to her friend
cover her friend, she want her friend to cool down
and comfort her, we have to bring water to her,
bring food for her, she don't move 12 day.
She don't move 12 day in there.
Normally I want to go in at night
and make her sleep, but I want to see what going on.
They talk to each other...
Amazing day number 13.
The what?
The day number 13, for 12 days she falling down,
number 13 she walk, the friend stand up.
The one won't leave so stand up walk
to the old shelter that's dirt shelter.
Walk there and die, to die in the shelter.
To die in the shelter.
Because the friend is doing,
she stand in the sun too much,
she walk and die in there, you wouldn't believe it,
every day after that friend dies, she snip, snip
wherever they stand together stand up there and mourn.
For long time and after that she die not long after that.
Such loyalty.
Yeah she die after that and it's heartbreak for us.
She not accept any new friend again but she die after that.
It's so sad.
They were like friends to the end.
What is the highest potential for the friendship
between humans and elephants, it seems that you
exemplify that, they love you, you love them.
Is there a place for friendships
between humans and elephants?
Yes I think if the human try to do,
but I think the human refuse that.
The human always believe I am the boss.
I think the human build the wall to block.
The build a what?
They build a wall the wall to block,
between that feeling, between that relationship.
Elephant open the heart for that but
human doesn't accept, human always "I'm better
"than you," human always want to command elephant
and that's so sad because we can,
we can feeling for both side, so elephant not trust human.
Most elephant come to the park already
they have abuse by men and when they arrive
at the park sometime very difficult for us
to make them trust us again and I'm not blame elephant.
Because if you see what is they have been abused.
You will know that these animal are very, very forgive.
For me if I'm young and someone abuse me like that,
I won't accept the food from the hand.
I think if people have experience with the tiger bite,
that people will be afraid tiger for life.
Amazing that elephant abuse by man,
elephant come to the park still forgive, except
the other human to go and touch
and feel and that's amazing and also I have example.
I have received the elephant from the trekking
which is the mother is have a mental issue,
and she came with the baby, when she first arrived,
she quite sick and then when her,
we treat her until she get much better
and her baby grow up and then her
she start to reproduce again, with nature
with our bull in there and her baby start
to go and take her milk, mother doesn't want
baby to her milk, she start to want to
put the baby out of the herd, so we
announcement for the new Mahout to come.
Many Mahout come to like interview.
Then I accept one young boy, seem like
he have a lot of experience with elephant.
During that time, this elephant she very friendly.
Every time when the people see her,
she will open the mouth right before,
she open like the hippopotamus ready throw the food.
Like a hippopotamus (laugh).
Then when I give the bread and give the banana to the boy.
Go and see her--
He's giving your banana yeah.
I give banana for the girl, because to choice,
she love two thing banana and bread.
I said give banana to her first.
When she saw this boy the Mahout,
she closed her mouth and the Mahout said,
"oh she doesn't want food, she's not hungry."
I said, "No way, this elephant 24 hour hungry."
I walk to her I said, and then she, I walk to her
with the banana and she open her mouth wide for me
and he said, "because I'm stranger she doesn't
"accept from me?" I said "alright I show you."
I call the people who just visit at day time,
one day come stand up and put the banana for them,
and put the boy in the middle of the line.
Everyone walk she open her mouth for them to put,
when she saw that boy, she closed her mouth.
She not accept, why, and I said tell me.
You know this elephant before? "No I didn't know."
Alright if you didn't know take her to the river.
She have the rope, he put he had to rope her
to take her to river, she pull the rope and run.
Screaming, she not just only screaming,
screaming to other elephant to run
and her including her brother.
Warning them.
Warning them and I said, "tell me,
"I know elephant never lie, you tell me the truth."
And then I might give you with other job.
He said "yeah if you give me the other elephant,
"I will tell you I know this elephant before."
I said "how long?"
I know this elephant 12 years ago when she teenage
I was her Mahout and she like to open the mouth.
And he teasing her when he order her to open her mouth,
he grabbed her own poop, throw in her mouth.
He put her poop to her mouth?
So after what a dozen years she remembered
that that boy put poop, her poop in her mouth.
And elephants are renowned for this,
incredible memory that lasts throughout their lives.
First how old do elephants live to be,
what is the lifespan?
Same human, same human, if they happy.
Some of them can stay for 90 years.
90 years.
At best 70 to 90 years.
What happens to the ones who are abused
and they're over worked and such?
Some of them too bad they stay about 50 years.
You know it depend, many of them falling down,
younger than that and I just have the list.
I just went and visit the elephant graveyard in the cemetery
two days ago, I saw at least 89 elephant
it's average of the age between 3 months to 10 years.
Is a lot of them die and die from,
and the reason is no reason but sickness, starvation,
and a lot of them is no don't know
why they die but I know that it's from human abuse.
It's too bad to see the baby elephant
falling down like that.
So tomorrow we're going to join you
out at the elephant preserve and I can't tell you
how excited we are because you have a new baby,
and this comes right after the loss
of one of the old bulls
and everyone was very sad to lose Max.
Same day, yeah the baby born the same day
we lost the boy, the other old boy but
Max you know when, Max when I first rescue Max,
it's amazing I have the couple from UK,
want to rescue the elephant and they have the money.
They follow me to Serene Elephants their cause,
they have about 300 elephant marching that field
on that day and many elephant ready to go
and they want to sell away, some of them are beautiful.
Then I saw Max walk very tall like a robot.
Slowly very slowly and skinny.
And I talk to the people who want to help me
to buy elephant I said I want that elephant.
They look at me they said, "that elephant,
"is gonna die next day if you buy."
I said "please help me," I want to help that
poor boy, even I take him to the park one day and he die.
I want him to be die dignity and happy, die freedom.
I not expect Max to stay with me a year but I expect him
a month, Max stays with me since 2002,
he falling down 2009, six and a half year.
So seven years, six and a half years,
he was with you, how old was he when he died,
would you guess?
I guess about 75.
75 years old.
But since we rescue him, everyday
he make me so afraid.
He couldn't wake up in the morning because his legs cannot.
Had bad legs yeah.
Then one day he walk all around the park,
and he very famous with the girl, all the girl like him.
The girls like, he was a lady's man. (laugh)
Yeah he not aggressive, he gentle.
And he is the one who belongs with the other boy,
so the girl who afraid for the bull,
they start to walk with him because they know he not well.
So he was a gentleman, so the girls
were comfortable with him.
Yeah.
When Max on musth normally the normal for
the musth sometime they can be between four
to seven month, Max on musk only month,
maximum to a month, all the girl come along,
baby elephant go up touch him and not long,
Max come off from the musk, because he become
not aggressive but he not bring with the Mahout,
the keepers, of all elephant they give him plenty love.
Oh that's wonderful.
So I guess the next thing is tomorrow.
(tribal music)
(kissing smacks)
Let me see it.
I'm quite sure I can see your face.
Don't even think to steal her from me.
(laughing)
A little baby no way (drowned out by music).
Hello baby.
You know I'm only half of her,
but she like the strong man to be yeah.
(laughing)
Ah that's so heavy, so heavy.
Big mouth.
(peaceful gentle music)
(peaceful music)
If you have an interest in spending time among
these amazing elephants, you can contact Lek's organization
in Chiang Mai, Thailand it's called
the Elephant Nature Park, not to be confused
with all of the other elephant parks
offering trekking, elephant painting and the like.
The website is at elephantnaturepark.org
the experience is life changing and Scott and I
felt particularly honored to be in such close contact
with the baby, now too heavy to play with.
Two big thumbs up on this one, until next time
thanks for watching CMN.